# dnChat
dnChat was an application layer chat protocol to be implemented for the core course Data Networks at Saarland University.

###TASK 1: IMPLEMENTING A BROWSER-BASED CLIENT
The task was to implement a browser-based client, using HTML and JavaScript, for a chat protocol called dnChat running on top of the WebSocket protocol (as defined in RFC 6455). By default, dnChat servers listen on port 42015. The browser-based user interface provides the ability to connect to a dnChat server specified by the user, to log in to the server with a user-specified name only (password is hard-coded), to send user-specified chat messages to all or to individual users connected to the server, and to disconnect from the server. A list of all other users connected to the server are shown. Chat messages sent by the local user to other users and chat messages received from other users via the server are displayed. Each chat message sent from the local user shows an indication of whether it has been successfully received by the server, and shows a list of the other users that have successfully received the message. To connect to local server running on port 42015, type **ws://localhost:42015** in the text field and click Connect. To connect to the reference server (modestchecker) running on port 42015, type **ws://modestchecker.net:42015** in the text field and click Connect. To send a message to user “XYZ” connected to server, type **@XYZ: Message** in the text field and click send.
###TASK 2: DEVELOPING A SERVER SIDE OF THE CHAT PROTOCOL IN JAVA
The task was to implement the server side of the dnChat protocol from the Task 1. It is a command-line program written in Java that, when started, provides a dnChat server listening for incoming connections from any network interface on the protocol’s default port. When the user types a line consisting of the string exit, the server cleanly shuts down and exit. The server allows multiple clients to be connected and to exchange chat messages simultaneously. It behaves like the reference server at modestchecker.net, forwarding chat messages to their intended recipients and passing acknowledgments back to the sender of a message.
###TASK 3: EXTENDING THE CHAT SERVER TO ALLOW CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM OTHER SERVERS TO CREATE A NETWORK OF SERVERS
The task was to extend the dnChat server to allow connections to and from other servers to create a network of servers. The clients (from Task 1) observes no functional difference between being connected to (a) a single server with a set of directly connected users as in Task 2 and (b) a server that is part of a network of servers with the same set of users connected to different servers. A server initiates a connection to another server when it reads a line from standard input starting with connect, followed by a space, the other server’s host name or IPv4 address, and optionally another space followed by a port number. The communication between servers follows the principles of the dnChat protocol as in the previous tasks, including the use of WebSockets and default port 42015.